PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES

1. Java

Java is a class-based, object-oriented programming language developed by Sun Microsystems in the 1990s.
It's one of the most in-demand programming languages, a standard for enterprise software, web-based content,
games and mobile apps, as well as the Android operating system. Java is designed to work across multiple
software platforms, meaning a program written on Mac OS X, for example, could also run on Windows.
Java and C# are actualy very similar programming languages. Both are classed-based object-oriented, both
use garbage collector, their syntax in general is similar, so switching between both should'n be a difficult
task. Java is the older language, it's open-source and as already said - platform independent opposed to C#,
which is developed specificly for .NET platform (see Mono).

2. PHP

PHP (Hypertext Processor) is a free, server-side scripting language designed for dynamic websites and application development.
PHP is originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1994. It can be directly embedded into an HTML source document rather than an 
external file, which has made it a popular programming language for web developers. PHP powers more than 200 million websites,
including Wordpress, Digg and Facebook. PHP is interpreted language, meaning the source code is executed line by line(thus slower),
without previously compiled into native code, which is the case with C# (see CLR). 

3. Python

Python is a high-level, server-side scripting language for websites and mobile apps. It's conceived in the late 1980s by
Guido van Rossum at CWI in the Netherlands. It's considered a fairly easy language for beginners due to its readability 
and compact syntax, meaning developers can use fewer lines of code to express a concept than they would in other languages.
It powers the web apps for Instagram, Pinterest and Rdio through its associated web framework, Django, and is used by Google,
Yahoo! and NASA. Python is a dynamic language (and dynamicly typed - no need to specify the object type) - the code is executed
at runtime, not during compile-time, which also leads to more runtime errors, more time for debugging and tracking down those errors.

4. Ruby

A dynamic, object-oriented scripting language for developing websites and mobile apps.  It was designed and developed in the mid-1990s
by Yukihiro "Matz" Matsumoto in Japan. Ruby was designed to be simple and easy to write. It powers the Ruby on Rails (or Rails) framework,
which is used on Scribd, GitHub, Groupon and Shopify. Like Python, Ruby is considered a fairly user-friendly language for beginners.
It's interpreted language, dynamicly typed, distinct programs run slower in comparison with C#.

5. C++

C++ is a general-purpose object oriented programming language, developed by Bjarne Stroustrup in the early 1980s. It is considered
to be an intermediate level language, as it encapsulates both high and low level language features. Initially, the language was called
'C with classes’ as it had all properties of C language with an additional concept of 'classes’. C++ is primarily utilized with system/application
software, drivers, client-server applications and embedded firmware. C++ is a compiled language, with implementations of it available on many platforms
and provided by arious organizations, including Microsoft, Intel and IBM. When compiled, C++ is converted into assembly code, C# is converted into
Common Intermediate Language (CIL). C# has a better memory managment handled by the garbage collecotor. In oppose to C#, with C++ the memory
has to be explicity deleted from the heap.



