	INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT 

	An integrated development environment (IDE) is a software application that provides certain facilities for software developments.
It consists of a source code editor, build automation tools and a debugger. Most IDEs contains also a compiler, interpreter, or both.  

	Some of the most popular IDEs are:

	1. Eclipse

	Eclipse is an integrated development environment that contains a base workspace and an extensible plug-in system for customizing the environment. It's a free and open source sofware.
Written mostly in Java, through various plug-ins Eclipse can be used to develop applications in other programming languages: Ada, C, C++, JavaScript, Perl, PHP, Prolog, Python, Ruby and so on.
Development environments include the Eclipse Java development tools (JDT) for Java and Scala, Eclipse CDT for C/C++ and Eclipse PDT for PHP, among others.

	2. Netbeans

	NetBeans is an IDE for developing primarily with Java, but also with other languages, in particular PHP, C/C++, and HTML5. 
The NetBeans IDE is written in Java and can run on Windows, OS X, Linux, Solaris and other platforms supporting a compatible JVM.
This program is free and extremely extensible via its plug-in-centric design, allowing an additional language syntax support and libraries.

	3. Microsoft Visual Studio

	Microsoft Visual Studio is used to develop computer programs for Microsoft Windows, as well as web sites, web applications and web services.
Visual Studio uses Microsoft software development platforms such as Windows API, Windows Forms, Windows Presentation Foundation, Windows Store and Microsoft Silverlight.
It includes a code editor supporting IntelliSense as well as automatic code formatting. Built-in languages include C, C++, VB.NET, C# and F#, also support for Python, Ruby and others.
Microsoft provides "Express" editions of Visual Studio at no cost. 

	4. Aptana Studio

	Aptana Studio is an open source integrated development environment for building Ajax web applications. 
Based on Eclipse, it supports JavaScript, HTML, DOM and CSS with code-completion, outlining, JavaScript debugging, error and warning notifications and integrated documentation.
Additional plugins allow Aptana Studio to support Ruby on Rails, PHP, Python, Perl, Adobe AIR, Apple iPhone and Nokia WRT.
Aptana Studio is available as a standalone on Windows, Mac OS X and Linux, or as a plug-in for Eclipse.

	5. Xcode

	Xcode is an integrated development environment containing a suite of software development tools developed by Apple for developing software for OS X and iOS.
Xcode includes Apple's WebObjects tools and frameworks for building Java web applications and web services.  
Xcode supports C, C++, Objective-C, Objective-C++, Java, AppleScript, Python, Ruby, Rez, and Swift source code with a variety of programming models, including Cocoa, Carbon, and Java.